.. CloudThing documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sun May  8 19:31:11 2016.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

******************
Getting Started
******************

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2

Quickstart with web application
=============================================

During this 5 minute quickstart, you'll create and model heat controller, register new device, automate it and set an alert with SMS notification.

Registration
-------------------

Go to ``https://app.cloudthing.io``, choose *I don't have an account* and follow instructions. You will have a new virtual host with autogenerated name created, remember the name and url to your instance of CloudThing platform!.

Create new product
-------------------

Once you logged in into web application, navigate to *Things > Product* and create new one by clicking on plus mark. Choose name and (optionally) description (eg. "Heat controller", "This Heat Controler is a set of Smart Home ecosystem"). Click on *Save & configure*.

Go to *DATA* and add new entry, change default values for "Temperature", "Temperature reported by controller" and "temp" respectively. Then go to *COMMANDS* and add new entry with "Turn", "Turns heating on or off" and "turn".

Register & connect device
-------------------

If you completed above go to "DEVICES" and add a new one. A new ID/token pair will be generated, click on ID and go to Device card.
As you can see the device is not active. To start sending measurements expand a menu on *Connectivity* card and choose *How to connect?*. Copy value from MQTT or HTTP card (you'll have to have MQTT client installed on your computer if want to use it, for HTTP you just need *curl* which is preinstalled on most Linux distributions).

Execute command from your computer's console, example:

.. code-block:: bash

	curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
	-u "dxM18Pd_T3yfsdds1x9AxFQ:HMb7Ug0nv3h8duyVfwwh5jIgce81dg3l" \
	-X POST https://vanilla-ice.cloudthing.io:444/v1/dxM18Pd_T3yfsdds1x9AxFQ/data \
	-d '{"r":[{"k":"temp","v":36.6}]}'

You should see a new message and point on application's chart.
Try replacing default value with others.

Create analytics flow
-------------------